That's the guy Tsukasa-san's
been looking for all this time.
What? Really?
Who is this guy?
Hello, Hyoga.
You're 3,700 years in the future.
This is a new world,
where your skills can truly shine.
I was wondering what kind of
badass he was going to revive,
but this guy's just a little twig!
Is he really gonna be of any use?
You'll understand if you fight him.
Care for a spar?
You sure? He might end up dead.
I feel kinda bad for the guy.
He just woke up, after all!
I don't mind.
If I can use my favored weapon,
I'll take on ten men by myself.
Too late to back out now!
Well, that's certainly impressive.
I apologize. There weren't enough men
for a warm-up spar after your rest.
It's not a question of numbers.
The only proper fighter here...
in other words, the one
I wouldn't want to fight,
is you, the strongest primate,
Shishio Tsukasa-kun.
Let me show you around our new world.
You see, Hyoga, nature is
generous with its bounty.
We lack nothing.
The world was like that for ages,
long before people began to live on it.
It didn't belong to anyone.
But the moment you and I were
born, the old world told us:
"This world, down to its
last square centimeter,
belongs to some rich old fool."
That's right.
I worked myself ragged day in and day out,
then had to give up more than
half of it for rent and whatnot.
That's more or less slavery,
looking back on it now.
The privileged exploit the impoverished
young, feeding on them.
That was the old world, where people
fought and stole from each other.
I'm a lot happier now.
Although part of that comes from being a fan
of the strongest primate, Tsuka-san.
Hey, we caught a big one!
We're back, Tsukasa-san.
Excellent work.
We managed to find a boar this time.
Brought it down, too!
Well, Tsukasa-chan was already
charismatic in the old world...
Thank you both.
Take someone strong,
handsome, and soft-spoken,
give him a half-decent argument,
and it'll be tough to talk
anyone into turning on him.
Now, Hyoga, would you have called the
society of 3,700 years ago a utopia?
Not at all.
Suppose the privileged class of
the old world was revived now,
and they obtained the weapons of
science that make killing so easy.
What do you think would happen?
I imagine they'd try to use
those weapons to recreate
the pyramid of wealth they stood upon.
No one who has sampled that
sweet nectar could ever abandon it.
Regardless, this world has been reset
and is in no condition to
support seven billion lives.
There must be a culling.
The two most dangerous fighters,
and they're in total agreement...
Then a new world must be built by the young.
There's no need to recreate the old one.
There was a... I'm not sure
I can call him a friend,
but a man named Senku who had
a superhuman grasp of science,
and he sought to revive the old world.
So...
I killed him with my own hands.
With no Senku, there will be no science.
The corrupt human race will be purified
and march on to a new world.
To accomplish that...
I'll stain my hands as much as necessary.
To Modernity
Th-They even cut through Hyoga-san's spear!
Damn it, it's useless! Run for it!
We did it!
Remarkable athleticism,
coordinated teamwork,
and dirty betrayal...
And the scientific knowledge to
create guns and Japanese katanas.
You people truly seem to know
the proper way to do things.
It would have been even more
proper if you had realized
that all of this was a distraction.
So that's what they were after...
Crap! A fire!
Run!
Head for the bridge! Hurry!
Jasper! Turquoise!
I don't need protection! Save the children!
Right!
The bridge...
Who is that?
A hindrance.
Get everyone to safety!
Another one?
Say hello to my right hand, Homura-kun.
She can properly handle herself,
unlike these men and their melted brains.
What are those moves?
This is not good.
Once a fire starts,
the wind from the mountain
will become a wind of death,
carrying the flames far and wide!
Everyone!
This way!
Forget about the houses!
Do you people want to die?!
Get out of here right now!
We can't go that way, either!
The bridge is burned out!
We have to get to the science shed!
Nice work, Homura.
I couldn't leave after being
humiliated like that.
Your humiliation means nothing.
We set those fires to force
the villagers out into the open.
That should be obvious,
even to your melted brain.
We're dealing with people so naive that they
wouldn't even abandon a village guard.
Why does that matter?
I get it!
We grab one of the kids that we smoked out
and use 'em as a hostage! Then we win!
Of course! That makes sense!
There's no guarantee they'll attack head-on.
Keep your senses spread
out in every direction!
Can we really protect a group this big?!
Shelter the children in the
science shed! It's our only hope!
O-Okay!
Get the water!
This way, hurry!
Start dousing, quick!
Hurry up!
It's burning up!
All those minerals Chrome
spent years gathering,
and the lab we spent months building!
If it gets wrecked, we'll...
I'm going to protect the kingdom of science!
Look!
Some dumb kid who didn't get away in time!
After her! She'll be our hostage!
So devoted that she'd act as a
diversion to help the others?
I certainly appreciate her naïveté.
We only need one captive to win,
and this will be far easier than attacking
the home base of those soldiers of science.
Gotta hide and run in turns to lure
them away from the kingdom of science.
I'll run upwind, toward the mountain,
so they can't smoke me out with more fire!
There she is! That way!
Suika did what?!
I-I tried to stop her!
She was heading up the mountain
to the hot springs!
Hey, this is the hot spring area that
I draw hot water from all the time.
It gets dangerous up ahead.
The poison gases that form here,
hydrogen sulfide and sulfur
dioxide, are heavier than air.
There's a strong wind coming
down the mountain...
Something about this wind...
It's not exactly giving me a good feeling.
Give it up already!
Let's break one of her
legs when we catch her!
This wind... Death.
Suika!
Get up into a tree!
Wh-What just happened?!
You don't have to worry.
The poison gas will settle to the bottom.
Did she say... poison gas?!
Mother Nature is neither friend nor foe.
She's as impartial as they come.
Poison gas?!
Did you make this happen, you twig?!
Yeah, you bet I did.
That's what you get for pulling a
dumbass move like a suicide attack
on our kingdom of science,
with its modern weaponry.
Now, let's head back, Suika.
If you breathe nice and slow, you'll be fine.
O-Okay!
You guys head back and suckle
on Mommy Tsukasa's teat...
After you wait ten billion seconds
for the gas to clear out, that is.
Is he screwing with us?!
I'm not gonna wait ten billion seconds!
How could he even make poison gas in
this stone world in the first place?!
Good point. Let's deal with this properly.
We'll need to make sure the
gas is gone before we move.
How fortunate that you lot
will finally do a job properly,
despite your melted brains.
Well, look at that. They properly died.
So those gas masks, at least, were real.
It seems that Senku-kun
and his allies have a variety of metals
and chemicals under their control.
The kingdom of science
certainly does loom large.
We can always rebuild the lost buildings!
We've repelled the attackers
without a single casualty!
Ishigami Village has won this battle!
You managed quite the achievement, Suika.
It was reckless as all get out, though.
We'll need to overwhelm them with numbers.
Tsukasa-kun and I will be
among them, of course,
along with the most massive, powerful
fighting force the empire can muster.
What are you going to do now?
Tsukasa-chan's finally about
to find out that you're alive.
Yeah, and he'll also figure out that
we can't produce the gunpowder
for guns fast enough.
Wait, we can't?
What do you mean?
Listen up. The revival fluid that
Tsukasa's guys have been cranking out
is actually pretty easy to make.
But we haven't revived a single statue.
And that's because we don't
have the nitric acid we need.
We could make some
from dung or sea shells,
but it'd take an insane amount
and too much time.
No nitric acid means no gunpowder, either.
Tsukasa is smart enough to
figure that out easily.
We don't even have any leftovers
in our gunpowder supply.
There's so much science lingo,
I'm not quite following...
Break it down more simply, would you?!
I'm trying to say that even if we have guns,
he knows we can't really use them.
And knowing Tsukasa,
he'll have a full army built up,
ready for a huge invasion.
The more time passes, the more
fighters they have, after all...
Which doesn't apply to our gunpowder.
S-So what are we gonna do?!
That should be obvious.
We attack them first.
With one of our fun scientific inventions.
I agree.
Waiting will put us at a disadvantage.
So the only option is to strike first!
We've gotta put that weapon of
science together first, though.
What is this weapon you're talking about?
Go ahead and cry tears of joy!
It's time to break out the real modern tech!
The scientific advancements we've
recreated from the stone age
will finally reach all the way into modernity!
This is the stuff that won wars in modern times.
The strongest weapon in two
million years of human history...
You... don't mean nukes, do you?
Nope.
The strongest weapon in two
million years of human history:
communications technology.
We're gonna make cellular phones,
right here in the stone world!
Cell...
...ular...
...phones?
Is he crazy? Because he just
said something really crazy.
A cellular phone?
What's that? Some kind of fish?
From a distance?
So you can talk to someone...
...from really far away?
That is definitely sorcery!
Is such a thing really possible?!
Oh, man! I wanna know how that works!
And that'll be our weapon?
You bet it will. Communications can
completely turn the tide in a battle.
Suppose we have a double agent
who leaks intel to us in real time...
This is Asagiri Gen.
Senku-chan, the bad guys are
wide open on the west side.
Barely even any guards. Over.
This is Asagiri Gen.
Senku-chan, the bad guys are
wide open on the west side.
Barely even any guards. Over.
Now that's some exhilarating intel!
We're gonna go nuts on their western flank!
If we coordinate our efforts the right way,
we might be able to dismantle the
Tsukasa Empire without bloodshed.
But who would be our double agent?
They're already out there.
Two of them: Taiju and Yuzuriha!
Smartphones!
Sure, smartphones!
Smartphones would be nice to have, huh?
Smartphones?!
You sure love your smartphone.
That blockhead Taiju wanted
a smartphone so badly,
and now it's finally going to happen.
Granted, this time it'll just be a
regular phone, not the smart kind.
We can do this!
We were able to make sulfa drugs,
and they took a ton of work, too!
Uh, listen...
You guys clearly aren't aware of this,
but this road map is full
of implausible things.
Nothing implausible about it.
No matter how far off the goal may seem,
if you stick to the rules, you'll get
there ten billion percent of the time.
Copper
Coal
Charcoal
Beehive
Sulfuric
Acid
Lead
Tin
Solder
Gold
Wire
Coil
Mercury
Vacuum
Pump
Phosphorus
Rochelle
Salt
Plastic
Battery
Circuit Board
Vacuum Tube
Light Bulb
Wine
Microphone
Headphones
Cell Phone
That's how science works.
All of Gen-kun's reports were lies.
The village already has
considerable scientific power.
Senku-kun is alive.
The Age of Energy
Next Episode
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.